[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1016

**ID:** T1016

**Name:** Live data collection

**Description:**

Running commands on a live system to collect specific pieces of information e.g. running processes or open ports

**Synonyms:**

Live response data collection, Volatile data collection, 

**Details:**

Prior to collecting data from the system, pre-stages are described in (Waits et al 2008) as:
- Establish trusted command shell
- Establish method for transmitting and storing the information


**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**

- pslist
- procdump
- psloggedon
- ipconfig
- netstat


**CASE Output Classes:**

    - observable:Process
    - observable:NetworkConnection
    - observable:IPAddress
    - observable:MACAddress
    - observable:UserAccount


**Potential weaknesses and mitigations:**

- W1034: Missing data from the live system due to compromised machine (e.g. rootkit) _(INCOMP)_
    - M1013: Consider memory acquisition and offline analysis instead 
- W1035: Collecting incorrect information from live system due to compromised machine (e.g. rootkit) _(INCOMP, INAC-EX, INAC-AS, INAC-COR)_
    - M1013: Consider memory acquisition and offline analysis instead 
- W1036: Overwriting relevant data with changes caused by running the live tools _(INCOMP, INAC-ALT)_
    - M1014: Test and document changes made by the tools used 
    - M1015: Use tools only if changes made are to locations where relevant evidence is unlikely to be located. 


**References:**

- Waits, C., Akinyele, J.A., Nolan, R. and Rogers, L., 2008. Computer forensics: results of live response inquiry vs. memory image analysis. CERT program, CMU/SEI-2008-TN-017.
- Kent, K., Chevalier, S., Grance, T. & Dang, H. (2006) Guide to Integrating Forensic Techniques into Incident Response. NIST Special Publication 800‑86. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Available at: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/legacy/sp/nistspecialpublication800-86.pdf 




---

*Markdown generated: 2025-11-03 14:35:28*
