[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1012

**ID:** T1012

**Name:** Hardware write blockers

**Objective(s):** Preserve digital evidence

**Description:**

A hardware write blocking device [should] prevent any change to data in the user area of a hard drive while allowing access to all data on a hard drive. (Lyle 2006)

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**

Note that "Sometimes it may be desirable to change a drive configuration to obtain access to otherwise hidden sectors, for example, such as within an HPA (host protected area)." (Lyle 2006) 

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Output Classes:**



**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [W1118: Hardware write blocker fails to prevent modifications to the attached device.](W1118.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [M1071: Thorough testing of write blocker against multiple targets to ensure that writes are not possible.](M1071.md)
    - [M1072: Regular checks for hardware write blocker firmware updates.](M1072.md)
    - [M1073: Subscription to notifications from write blocker vendor for firmware updates or identified problems.](M1073.md)
- [W1119: Hardware write blocker hides the existence of an HPA.](W1119.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1005: Testing to ensure software and hardware setup detects HPAs](M1005.md)
- [W1120: Hardware write blocker hides the existence of an DCO.](W1120.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1006: Testing to ensure software and hardware setup detects DCOs](M1006.md)


**References:**

- Lyle, J.R., 2006. A strategy for testing hardware write block devices. digital investigation, 3, pp.3-9.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-02-12 20:36:42*
