[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1010

**ID:** T1010

**Name:** Place device in faraday environment

**Objective(s):** Preserve digital evidence

**Description:**

Place a device in an environment designed to shield a mobile phone or small digital device from radio waves entering the environment and reaching the device, and to stop radio waves escaping from the environment (adapted from Lennox-Steele & Nisbet (2016))

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**

Environment should block: mobile network, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth and all other RF.

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Output Classes:**



**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [W1115: Device is remote wiped because faraday environment was insufficient.](W1115.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-COR)_
    - [M1002: Testing of the faraday environment to be used](M1002.md)
- [W1116: Last wifi connection is overwritten because faraday environment was insufficient.](W1116.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-COR)_
    - [M1002: Testing of the faraday environment to be used](M1002.md)
- [W1117: Calls, messages or other data was received and overwrote relevant data because faraday environment was insufficient.](W1117.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-COR)_
    - [M1002: Testing of the faraday environment to be used](M1002.md)


**References:**

- Lennox-Steele, A., & Nisbet, A. (2016). A forensic examination of several mobile device Faraday bags & materials to test their effectiveness. In Valli, C. (Ed.). (2016). The Proceedings of 14th Australian Digital Forensics Conference, 5-6 December 2016, Edith Cowan University, Perth, Australia. (pp 34-41).




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-02-12 20:36:42*
