[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1034

**ID:** T1034

**Name:** Brute force attack

**Description:**

A brute force attack, or exhaustive search is a password cracking approach where every combination of characters is tested until the correct one is found. This method is "guaranteed to work" given infinite time and resources which in a real-life scenario is not feasible.

**Synonyms:**

exhaustive password search, 

**Details:**

Brute force attack involves trying every possible combination in a defined search space to find the correct value. The search space could be limited to just numbers, for example in the case of a 4-digit PIN number, or alphanumerical values or even the full ASCII character set. The larger the search space, the longer it takes to complete a brute force attack.

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**CASE Output Classes:**

    - observable:password


**Potential weaknesses and mitigations:**

- W1140: Failing to determine password as it is not in the search space _(INCOMP)_
    - M1097: Attempt to obtain password from the suspect 
    - M1098: Optimise the brute force search space 
    - M1099: Use a dictionary attack instead ([T1035](T1035.md))
- W1141: Failing to determine password via brute force in the time available _(INCOMP)_
    - M1097: Attempt to obtain password from the suspect 
    - M1098: Optimise the brute force search space 
    - M1099: Use a dictionary attack instead ([T1035](T1035.md))
    - M1100: Apply additional resources to brute force attack 
- W1142: System locks after X failed brute force attempts _(INAC-ALT, INAC-COR)_
    - M1097: Attempt to obtain password from the suspect 
    - M1098: Optimise the brute force search space 
    - M1099: Use a dictionary attack instead ([T1035](T1035.md))


**References:**

- Kanta, A., Coray, S., Coisel, I. and Scanlon, M., 2021. How viable is password cracking in digital forensic investigation? Analyzing the guessability of over 3.9 billion real-world accounts. Forensic Science International: Digital Investigation, 37, p.301186.




---

*Markdown generated: 2025-11-09 10:14:38*
