[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1031

**ID:** T1031

**Name:** Key recovery from memory

**Description:**

This describes the technique whereby an attempt is made to extract key material from memory, or a memory acquisition of a running system to fascinate the decryption of some data 

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**



**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**

- Bulk Extractor - of the many scanners within bulk extractor, one of which attempts to locate AES keys.
- Volatility - the plug in ‘trucryptmaster’ attempts to recover Truecrypt 7.1a master keys.


**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/DecryptionKey](https://ontology.solveit-df.org/solveit/observable/DecryptionKey)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [W1044](W1044.md): Failing to extract a decryption key that is present _(INCOMP)_
    - M1025: Validation & testing against the encryption system under consideration 
- [W1045](W1045.md): Extracting an incorrect decryption key _(INAC-EX)_
    - M1024: Validate extracted key against the encrypted material before powering off the machine from which the key was extracted (e.g. Hargreaves & Chivers 2008b) 


**References:**

- Hargreaves, C. and Chivers, H., 2008, March. Recovery of encryption keys from memory using a linear scan. In 2008 Third International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security (pp. 1369-1376). IEEE.
- Hargreaves & Chivers 2008b. Avoiding Live Imaging of Large Encrypted Volumes by Recovering Keys from Memory, Proceedings from 3rd Advances in Computer Security and Forensics 
- Halderman, J.A., Schoen, S.D., Heninger, N., Clarkson, W., Paul, W., Calandrino, J.A., Feldman, A.J., Appelbaum, J. and Felten, E.W., 2009. Lest we remember: cold-boot attacks on encryption keys. Communications of the ACM, 52(5), pp.91-98.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-02-05 01:52:13*
