[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1035

**ID:** T1035

**Name:** Dictionary attack

**Objective(s):** Gain access

**Description:**

A dictionary attack is a password cracking technique where an attacker uses a list of passwords, called a dictionary, to attempt to guess a password.

**Synonyms:**



**Details:**

Dictionary attacks use list compiled common passwords that are likely to be used by people, such as dictionary words, names, common patterns or existing lists of popular or leaked passwords.  Therefore, success depends on the quality and of dictionary list.

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**



**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/password](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/password)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [W1137: Failing to determine password as it is not in the dictionary used](W1137.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1091: Use a brute force attack instead](M1091.md)
    - [M1092: Optimise dictionary](M1092.md)
    - [M1093: Use mangling rules to generate variants of candidate passwords](M1093.md)
    - [M1094: Include contextual information when assembling the dictionary](M1094.md)
    - [M1205: Use wordlist generator with case data](M1205.md)
    - [M1231: Obtain possible passwords/PIN codes from other devices with limited security](M1231.md) (links to: [T1033](T1033.md))
- [W1138: Failing to identify password in the time available](W1138.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1092: Optimise dictionary](M1092.md)
    - [M1095: Order dictionary to test the most likely candidates first](M1095.md)
    - [M1096: Apply additional resources to dictionary attack](M1096.md)
    - [M1097: Attempt to obtain password/passcode from the device owner](M1097.md) (links to: [T1037](T1037.md))
    - [M1205: Use wordlist generator with case data](M1205.md)
    - [M1231: Obtain possible passwords/PIN codes from other devices with limited security](M1231.md) (links to: [T1033](T1033.md))
- [W1139: System locks after X failed dictionary attempts](W1139.md) _(INAC-ALT, INAC-COR)_
    - [M1094: Include contextual information when assembling the dictionary](M1094.md)
    - [M1095: Order dictionary to test the most likely candidates first](M1095.md)
    - [M1097: Attempt to obtain password/passcode from the device owner](M1097.md) (links to: [T1037](T1037.md))
    - [M1231: Obtain possible passwords/PIN codes from other devices with limited security](M1231.md) (links to: [T1033](T1033.md))


**References:**

- Kanta, A., Coisel, I. and Scanlon, M., 2021, December. PCWQ: A framework for evaluating password cracking wordlist quality. In International Conference on Digital Forensics and Cyber Crime (pp. 159-175). Cham: Springer International Publishing.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-02-12 20:36:42*
