[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1059

**ID:** T1059

**Name:** Identify partitions

**Objective(s):** Access partitions, volumes and file systems data

**Description:**

Partitions are defined as ‘allocated contiguous sets of sectors from storage media’. This involves recovering the list of partitions that exist on a storage media.

**Synonyms:**

media management analysis, 

**Details:**

Partitions schemes include: MBR, GPT, APM. Some schemes such as GPT have records of the partitions in a single area (plus a backup partition table), others such as MBR make use of Extended Partition Tables (EPTs) that are scattered throughout the disk.

Partitions can also be deleted but may be recoverable if the start sectors of the volumes contained within them can be identified. 

**Subtechniques:**



**Examples:**

- Hargreaves, Nelson and Casey (2024) provides a dataset with a deleted but recoverable partition that can be used for tool evaluation.


**Output Classes:**

- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/DiskPartition](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/DiskPartition)
- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/partitionOffset](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/partitionOffset)
- [https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/partitionLength](https://ontology.unifiedcyberontology.org/uco/observable/partitionLength)


**Potential weaknesses and potential mitigations:**

- [W1063: Incorrectly parsing the partitions table(s)](W1063.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-EX)_
    - [M1047: Testing partition table parsing on standard and non-standard configurations](M1047.md)
    - [M1050: Manual verification of relevant data](M1050.md)
    - [M1027: Dual tool verification](M1027.md)
- [W1064: Making incorrect assumptions about sector size e.g. 512 rather than 4096](W1064.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1045: Explicitly detect sector size in use](M1045.md)
    - [M1046: Check pointer offsets for both 512 and 4096 sectors sizes](M1046.md)
- [W1065: Failing to correctly parse start sector pointers from partition tables](W1065.md) _(INCOMP, INAC-EX)_
    - [M1047: Testing partition table parsing on standard and non-standard configurations](M1047.md)
- [W1066: Missing deleted but recoverable partitions from unpartitioned space](W1066.md) _(INCOMP)_
    - [M1043: Scan for orphaned EPTs](M1043.md)
    - [M1044: Scan for Volume Boot Records in unpartitioned space](M1044.md)
- [W1067: Failure to check the integrity of partition table (where possible e.g. GPT)](W1067.md) _(INAC-COR)_
    - [M1048: Check built-in integrity checks of partition tables where possible](M1048.md)
    - [M1049: Check consistency between primary and backup partition tables (where possible)](M1049.md)


**References:**

- Nikkel, B., 2009. Forensic analysis of GPT disks and GUID partition tables. Digital Investigation, 6(1-2), pp.39-47.
- Carrier, B., 2005. File system forensic analysis. Addison-Wesley Professional.




---

*Markdown generated: 2026-02-12 20:36:42*
