[< back to main](../solve-it.md)
# T1086

**ID:** T1086

**Name:** Timeline analysis

**Description:**

The process of moving from a set of timeline entries to reconstructed events, or to identify times of interest (adapted from Breitinger et al. 2025).

**Synonyms:**

Temporal Analysis, 

**Details:**

This can involve refinement approaches such as: filtering irrelevant entries, highlighting key entries, or aggregating entries into more meaningful events

**Subtechniques:**

- [T1134 - Use time anchors to estimate clock offset](T1134.md)


**Examples:**

- TimeSketch (Berggren et al. 2014)
- PyDFT (Hargreaves & Patterson 2012)


**CASE Output Classes:**



**Potential weaknesses and mitigations:**

- [W1148](W1148.md): Timestamp used is an inaccurate representation of the real world time due to inaccurate system clock _(INAC-EX)_
    - M1101: Apply time offset to timestamp ([T1153](T1153.md))
    - M1225: Estimate clock offset at a specific point in time using time anchoring ([T1134](T1134.md))
    - M1227: Search for indicators of clock tampering ([T1129](T1129.md))
    - M1228: Record system clock offset ([T1111](T1111.md))
- [W1266](W1266.md): Timestamp used is an inaccurate representation of the real world time due to timezone and/or daylight savings _(INAC-EX)_
    - M1101: Apply time offset to timestamp ([T1153](T1153.md))
    - M1224: Check for location artifacts to infer the time zone at a specific moment 
    - M1229: Determine last timezone used on system 
    - M1230: Ensure that daylight savings offsets that are applied to timestamps are correct 


**References:**

- Berggren at al. (2014) TimeSketch, https://timesketch.org
- Breitinger, F., Studiawan, H. and Hargreaves, C., 2025. SoK: Timeline based event reconstruction for digital forensics: Terminology, methodology, and current challenges.
- Casey, E., 2011. Digital evidence and computer crime: Forensic science, computers, and the internet. Academic press, Section 8.1.2
- Hargreaves, C. and Patterson, J., 2012. An automated timeline reconstruction approach for digital forensic investigations. Digital Investigation, 9, pp.S69-S79.




---

*Markdown generated: 2025-12-06 20:35:18*
